

How do the
applicant’s performance, potential, background or personal qualities compare to
those of other well-qualified individuals in similar roles?

Throughout my time managing Fareed I have come to see that
he is not the average associate I’ve worked with in the past. Fareed has
displayed great potential, leadership and most importantly a human touch as an
associate. 

Fareed’s potential is evident from his engineering
background. In our group we have many ambiguous requests that will come from
senior management or bankers. Often, senior management will ask for
non-standard analysis of competitors or clients. As you can imagine this
requires gathering data from many sources to build a model capable of
translating that data into actionable insights. To many analysts and associates
this can be an arduous task. Linking our own internal data in the Investment
Bank to other parts of the Firm and to third-part sources is a difficult task
considering the many ways a client’s name can be spelled in each system (Apple
Inc, Apple Incorporated, Apple, etc). Fareed took this challenge of building a
global model by first defining the problem – global competitive analysis of our
clients broken out by industry and financial metrics. Then he identified the
sources of data both internally and externally along with the required work
necessary to scrub the data for data quality. Finally he sketched out what he
final model and summary pages would look like to display the information for
senior management. It was evident how much potential he had leveraging his
analytical and engineering background to solve complex problems.

As a leader on the team,  Fareed has consistently produced accurately
timely work and quickly became a subject matter expert in Global Corporate Bank
(GCB) reporting. Understanding that he had become the expert on GCB by
answering the questions of bankers, business managers and senior management
Fareed realized there was a gap within the team of knowledge of the GCB
business. To this end Fareed took the initiative to start training junior
employees on the business including: creating informative decks, one-on-one
training, and introducing them to the business managers who work for the
bankers. This demonstration of leadership has empowered our employees to work
collaboratively with the business managers and bankers on all matters of GCB
eliminating any knowledge loss within the team. 

Finally, I believe Fareed’s strongest trait is his ability
to connect with people on an interpersonal level. In our group we have to work
with many levels of the organization including managing directors, business
managers, bankers, and many functional areas. His skill in connecting to others
allows for a collaborative work environment. One example has been in his work
with the business managers he supports. Business managers are often endlessly
stressed with multiple competing requests from bankers and business heads.
Often times they turn to Fareed with very obscure requests from business heads.
Fareed helps put them at ease by communicating directly with them (phone or
face to face, no emails) to identify deliverables. Then after completing the
deliverables Fareed will follow up with the business manager to go over the
steps taken to complete the request and any insights he may have gained from
the analysis. By scheduling these follow-ups with business manager we can
supply the business manager with valuable insight into the data to communicate
to the business head. 





Please describe the most important piece of
constructive feedback you have given the applicant. Please detail the
circumstances and the applicant's response:

As a young analyst or associate one of the hardest things to
do in a fast pace environment is keep the big picture in front of you when all
deliverables come in as urgent. One of the key points of feedback I’ve tried to
hammer home with Fareed is when requests come in from senior management,
business managers or bankers to take a step back and understand what is being
asked – the bigger picture. The word URGENT to a young associate can cause
unnecessary work and can get your mired in details. When I first started
managing Fareed there were a few times a business manager would send an urgent
sounding request from an industry head. Without skipping a beat Fareed would
dive into the request. Generally there were no issues in completing the
analysis or request. However, on occasion Fareed would be left spinning his
wheels trying to build the perfect model or summarize the data the exact way.
After seeing him struggle with this a few times I asked if he had a
conversation with the business manager to talk about timelines and to clarify
the request. It didn’t strike him that this was something he could do
considering the tone of the initial email. I encouraged him that a 5 minute
phone call would not delay him any further. The call lasted no longer than 5
minutes and once we were clear on the deliverable we were able to answer the
question on the call rather than doing an unnecessarily detailed analysis. More
of these requests would come in for specific deals or competitor wallet shares
and I started to see the change in Fareed of rather than reacting to the
request instead he was now trying to understand the bigger picture to better
serve his stakeholders. This helped save him time but also helped improve the
relationship between business managers and finance. I have even seen him
encouraging junior members of the team to do the same which has had a positive
impact on the team.

